who doesn't want a quiet mind I think
most people do although many don't even
realize it it's the reason we drink
smoke a joint binge watch series on
Netflix and check our smartphones we
want an escape from her over encumbered
Minds that torment us with repetitive
thinking patterns about what happened
today and what might happen tomorrow
a patron named Jacob asked me for
philosophical ideas we can use to quiet
our minds and basically feel less
overwhelmed by daily life so I turn to
different philosophers for answers in
this video I will share some interesting
things I felt first of all I want to
thank a brand new patron named Norbert
for donating to me very much appreciate
it now for starters let's do some
backwards thinking if our goal is
achieving a quiet mind we should find
out what exactly causes a noisy mind
first so let's dive in the Stoics
observed that a noisy mind is caused by
desire and aversion in regards to things
that are beyond our control stowed
teacher
Epictetus emphasizes that we should
unconditionally accept everything that
is beyond our control also if we are
able to seek good in every situation it
doesn't really matter how life has been
and how life will turn out so there's no
need to worry or ruminate that's why we
shouldn't encumber our minds with
grasping at one thing and a versing
another we should fully embrace what
comes at us instead
Epictetus explained this beautifully and
I quote remember that you must behave in
life as at a dinner party as anything
brought around to you put out your hand
and take your share with moderation does
it pass by you don't stop it
is it not yet calm don't stretch your
desire towards it but wait till it
reaches you and quote the idea of amor
fati which can be translated as the law
of fate is a useful reminder to embrace
whatever happens to achieve tranquillity
we shouldn't let our minds linger
outside the present moment so often
unfortunately people do this all the
time chewing over past events even if
they occurred many years ago and
worrying about what might happen in the
future the stoic teacher named Seneca
said about this and a quote wild animals
run from the dangers they actually see
and once they have escaped
they worry no more we however are
tormented alike by what is past and what
is to come and quote a quiet mind comes
without strain a philosopher Alan Watts
who is famous for bringing Eastern
philosophy to Western audiences argued
that the act of thinking puts strain on
our minds because thinking is a linear
process that goes slower than what our
consciousness picks up through the
senses so it takes effort for our
thoughts to keep up with reality he said
and I quote the more we tend to live in
a world of thought the more we tend to
live in an abstract world that is
removed from and has a gap between it
and the real world of nature and quote
what's observed that as a result of this
we tend to live in a world that is
unsatisfying and lacks vitality a danish
philosopher from the 19th century made a
very similar conclusion among the
writings of tormented soul sir and
Kierkegaard is a masterpiece named
either or in a chapter of this book
called the unhappiest man Kierkegaard
stated that the most unhappy man is the
man who has the fullness of his
consciousness in some manner outside of
himself he said and I quote the unhappy
man is always absent from himself never
present to himself but one can be absent
obviously either in the past or in the
future this adequately circumscribes the
entire territory of the unhappy
consciousness and quote the observation
of the young Kierkegaard touched on the
essence of the noisy mind which is being
outside ourselves thus in the past or in
the future this is surprisingly similar
to Eckhart Tolle s teachings about
living in a present moment and a quote
most humans are never fully present in
the now
because unconsciously they believe that
the next moment must be more important
than this one but then you miss your
whole life which is never not now and
quote if life is never not now then
thinking about anything else then now is
an act of being outside of life
sometimes it's necessary to step outside
of life for a moment to plan for the
future or to learn from past mistakes
however when planning becomes worry and
the worry becomes anxiety and when
learning from mistakes turns through
repetitive reflections leading to
destructive emotions like shame guilt
and remorse
we know that the mind is lingering in
the wrong places so how do we achieve a
quiet mind the solution is amazingly
simple think less here's a quote from
the Hindu scripture the Bhagavad Gita
for the one who has conquered the mind
the mind is the best of friends but for
the one who has failed to do so his
fairy mind will be his greatest enemy
and quote therefore Eastern traditions
are very much concerned with training
the mind the Buddhists call a noisy mind
a monkey mind because like our thoughts
a monkey jumps from tree to tree the
practice of meditation is a way to tame
the monkey mind by observing our
thoughts in order to let them dissolve
like clouds in the sky
achieving a quiet mind takes practice
but only with a clear mind we can live
in a present moment and fully immerse
ourselves in the dance of life thank you
for watching
[Music]
you